README.md, before:

# Support Watcher

> Watches over Helper Heidi to make sure she's okay <3

Support Watcher is a Prometheus exporter that collects statistics about the Summer of Making help channel.

Data provided by [Nephthys](https://nephthys.hackclub.com/), the Summer of Making support bot! (She's also known as Helper Heidi.)

## Demo

**[📊 View the demo on grafana.slevel.xyz](https://grafana.slevel.xyz/public-dashboards/d07313df925b4d2eafc84956f5cb72c4?from=now-12h&to=now&timezone=browser)**

[![A Grafana dashboard with stats from Support Watcher](assets/v0.1-screenshot.png)](https://grafana.slevel.xyz/public-dashboards/d07313df925b4d2eafc84956f5cb72c4?from=now-12h&to=now&timezone=browser)

## Run from source

You'll need to have [Rust](https://www.rust-lang.org/tools/install) installed.

1. Clone the repository and `cd` into it
2. Run `cargo run` in your terminal
3. Verify that it works by visiting <http://localhost:9000/metrics> and viewing the metrics

### Add Prometheus

You can ingest the metrics into Prometheus or a compatible time-series database. An example [prometheus.yaml](development/prometheus.yaml) configuration file is provided, which you can use directly or integrate into an existing config. To use the config, install Prometheus and run

```bash
prometheus --config.file=development/prometheus.yaml
```

## Run with Docker

Simply use the `docker-compose.yaml` file provided in [deployment/docker-compose.yaml](deployment/docker-compose.yaml) and deploy it to any server! Add a Prometheus container if desired.

### Quick start with Docker

1. Download the docker compose file: `wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/MMK21Hub/support-watcher/refs/heads/master/deployment/docker-compose.yaml`
2. Start the service: `docker compose up -d`
3. Support Watcher's metrics will be exposed to <http://localhost:9000/metrics>

## Command line options

- `support-watcher` &ndash; Start the exporter on the default port (`9000`)
  - `support-watcher --port <port>` &ndash; Specify a custom port
  - `support-watcher --verbose` &ndash; Enable logging all received data
  - `support-watcher --scrape-interval <seconds>` &ndash; Specify how often the API is queried
    - Please be nice to Helper Heidi by not setting this to something silly like 1 second, because that might overload the API!

## Contributing tips

### Building the Docker container

#### Testing the Dockerfile locally

1. Build and run the container: `docker compose -f development/compose.yaml up --build`

#### Build a multi-platform image

1. Set up a Docker BuildKit builder: `docker buildx create --use`
2. Install required emulators: `docker run --privileged --rm tonistiigi/binfmt --install arm64` (if your local machine is x86_64)
   - If you're on an ARM64 machine, you should install the `amd64` emulator instead
   - If you're on another architecture, install both (`arm64,amd64`)
3. Build it! `docker buildx build --platform linux/amd64,linux/arm64 --load .`

#### Build a multi-platform image and upload it to Docker Hub

1. If you're publishing a new version, bump version in `Cargo.toml` and `git tag` the new version
2. Check the [tags already available on Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/r/mmk21/support-watcher/tags)
3. Use the [`upload-new-docker-image.sh`](upload-new-docker-image.sh) script! E.g. `./upload-new-docker-image.sh 0.1.9`
   - This will automatically perform the preparatory steps for multi-platform builds (as above), build the image, tag it, and upload it to Docker Hub

Commit message:

Add instructions on getting a Slack bot token

README.md, after:

# Support Watcher

> Watches over Helper Heidi to make sure she's okay <3

Support Watcher is a Prometheus exporter that collects statistics about the Summer of Making help channel.

Data provided by [Nephthys](https://nephthys.hackclub.com/), the Summer of Making support bot! (She's also known as Helper Heidi.)

## Demo

**[📊 View the demo on grafana.slevel.xyz](https://grafana.slevel.xyz/public-dashboards/d07313df925b4d2eafc84956f5cb72c4?from=now-12h&to=now&timezone=browser)**

[![A Grafana dashboard with stats from Support Watcher](assets/v0.1-screenshot.png)](https://grafana.slevel.xyz/public-dashboards/d07313df925b4d2eafc84956f5cb72c4?from=now-12h&to=now&timezone=browser)

## Run from source

You'll need to have [Rust](https://www.rust-lang.org/tools/install) installed.

1. Clone the repository and `cd` into it
2. Run `cargo run` in your terminal
3. Verify that it works by visiting <http://localhost:9000/metrics> and viewing the metrics

### Add Prometheus

You can ingest the metrics into Prometheus or a compatible time-series database. An example [prometheus.yaml](development/prometheus.yaml) configuration file is provided, which you can use directly or integrate into an existing config. To use the config, install Prometheus and run

```bash
prometheus --config.file=development/prometheus.yaml
```

## Run with Docker

Simply use the `docker-compose.yaml` file provided in [deployment/docker-compose.yaml](deployment/docker-compose.yaml) and deploy it to any server! Add a Prometheus container if desired.

### Quick start with Docker

1. Download the docker compose file: `wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/MMK21Hub/support-watcher/refs/heads/master/deployment/docker-compose.yaml`
2. Start the service: `docker compose up -d`
3. Support Watcher's metrics will be exposed to <http://localhost:9000/metrics>

## Command line options

- `support-watcher` &ndash; Start the exporter on the default port (`9000`)
  - `support-watcher --port <port>` &ndash; Specify a custom port
  - `support-watcher --verbose` &ndash; Enable logging all received data
  - `support-watcher --scrape-interval <seconds>` &ndash; Specify how often the API is queried
    - Please be nice to Helper Heidi by not setting this to something silly like 1 second, because that might overload the API!

## Adding Slack API integration

Support Watcher can optionally use the Slack API to provide metrics that map user IDs to display names, making it easy to show display names in dashboards. This feature is disabled by default because it requires a Slack bot token.

To use Slack API integration:

1. [Create a Slack app](https://api.slack.com/apps), naming it something like "Support Watcher" (but not exactly that because that's the name I've used) and setting it to the Hack Club workspace
2. Go to the **OAuth & Permissions** tab of your app config, scroll to the **Bot Token Scopes** section, and add the `users:read` scope
3. Go to the **Install App** tab and install the app to the Hack Club workspace
4. Copy the Bot User OAuth Token (starting with `xoxb-`) and save it for later

## Contributing tips

### Building the Docker container

#### Testing the Dockerfile locally

1. Build and run the container: `docker compose -f development/compose.yaml up --build`

#### Build a multi-platform image

1. Set up a Docker BuildKit builder: `docker buildx create --use`
2. Install required emulators: `docker run --privileged --rm tonistiigi/binfmt --install arm64` (if your local machine is x86_64)
   - If you're on an ARM64 machine, you should install the `amd64` emulator instead
   - If you're on another architecture, install both (`arm64,amd64`)
3. Build it! `docker buildx build --platform linux/amd64,linux/arm64 --load .`

#### Build a multi-platform image and upload it to Docker Hub

1. If you're publishing a new version, bump version in `Cargo.toml` and `git tag` the new version
2. Check the [tags already available on Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/r/mmk21/support-watcher/tags)
3. Use the [`upload-new-docker-image.sh`](upload-new-docker-image.sh) script! E.g. `./upload-new-docker-image.sh 0.1.9`
   - This will automatically perform the preparatory steps for multi-platform builds (as above), build the image, tag it, and upload it to Docker Hub
